## Automated fiducial-based tilt-series alignment for RELION4 in Dynamo

This is based on [autoalign4warp by Alister Burt](https://github.com/alisterburt/autoalign_dynamo)

#### Motivation

This package takes you all the way from an image stack and a rawtlt file to tomograms reconstructed by RELION in a semi-automated (honest!) manner. This pipeline is designed for datasets where you have lots of tomograms (with fiducial markers) and you want to perform subtomogram averaging to a high resolution.

#### Outline

First, we use dautoalign4relion (based on [autoalign4warp by Alister Burt](https://github.com/alisterburt/autoalign_dynamo)) to carry out automated TSA. We have made significant modifications to the Dynamo TSA scripts which reduce the residual motion of the fiducial markers from the alignment to a minimum. Annecdotally, we have found that this function performs TSA as well as carefully manually picking gold beads in IMOD but in far less time. dautoalign4relion takes approx. 45 minutes to 1 hour per tomogram. If this is too slow for you, we have included a 'fast mode' which takes ~15 minutes per tomogram but will give you higher residual motion of the fiducial markers (i.e. the TSA will be less accurate). dautoalign4relion will output IMOD metadata from the TSA. 

RELION 4 also requires the newst.com and tilt.com files which would have been generated by an IMOD TSA. To generate these files, we use generate_com which either uses our template com files or your own template com files (i.e. from a quick IMOD TSA you did yourself) and enters the correct metadata for each tilt series. 

RELION 4 also requires a csv file for each tilt series describing the order in which the images were taken. If you have collected your data using a dose-symmetric tilt scheme, you can use generate_tilt_order for each of these files. For other tilt series aquistions schemes, it won't be too hard to generate these yourself (if I'm feeling generous I may add these as a feature later).

RELION 4 also requires CTF estimation for each tilt series. We have included a wrapper (run_CTFFIND) for CTFFIND to generate CTF estimations for each tilt series.

RELION 4 also requires a tomogram_descr.star file (last thing, really!) which describes each tomogram in your dataset. This can be generated using generate_tomo_descr.

#### You can now import into RELION! 

You can now use RELIONs [relion_tomo_reconstruct_tomogram](https://relion.readthedocs.io/en/release-4.0/Reference/STA/Programs/reconstruct_tomogram.html#program-tomo-reconstruct-tomogram) function to generate tomograms to pick particles on! If you use Dynamo to pick particles, you can convert the Dynamo table containing particle coordinates to a coordinates star file using [this package](https://github.com/EuanPyle/dynamo2relion).

Please note, the latter stages of this worflow (i.e. generate_tilt_order/run_CTFFIND/generate_tomo_descr) are optimised for data collected on a Krios, in a dose symmetric tilt scheme. If your data was not collected in this manner, you may have to adjust a few of the scripts yourself so that it outputs the correct parameters.

#### Installation
#### Requirements
- Dynamo (1.1.478 or later) activated in MATLAB
- IMOD
- MATLAB (R2019a or later)
- Python (3.0 or later)
- CTFFIND4

#### Download and install

#### Activation and Running

default mode XYZXYZYXYZYXYZYXYZ

fast_mode is the 'standard' version of the Dynamo automated TSA. It will run faster than the default version of this package (~10-15 minutes per tilt-series). However, you will get a larger average residual movement per fiducial marker (i.e. the TSA is will be less well-aligned).

Whether the average residual movement per fiducial marker matters or not to you depends on the resolution you hope to achieve. For high(er)-resolution work (10A or less), we recommend the default version. For lower resolution work, fast_mode may be suitable.

